Hi, I'm Kenny Smith
and welcome to young
athletes and the road ahead
brought to you by nbc and our proud
sponsor beyond protein. (Cow moos)
Where's the beef?
On the cow where it belongs.
Thanks, beyonde.
And tonight we have
our special guest,
presidential candidate
Dwayne Johnson.
Kenny, always good to see you,
my man,
and looking crisp as always.
And good to
see you too, beyonde.
Where are my lettuce lovers at?
(Adult Dwayne chuckles)
So, as you know, our show
focuses on the challenges
that young athletes
face off the field.
That's right.
And you didn't start
playing football till
yourjunior year of high school,
and it took you
to one of the top college
football programs
in the country.
The u, baby!
The university of Miami.
Say itwith me, Kenny.
I know you want to.
Tar heel born, tar heel bred.
And when I die,
I'll be tar heel dead.
Wow, dead.
That's some commitment.
You know, when you think back,
is there anything that
you've learned about adversity
that you would say sticks
with you today?
Oh, yeah. I remember facing
one of the toughest
challenges of my life.
When I got to
the university of Miami,
it was in 1990,
and I was a freshman.
And I was joining the reigning
defending national champions.
Let me tell you
something, brother.
We were the baddest pack of
dogs walking god's green earth.
The plan was to become a
starter, kick ass on Saturdays,
get drafted by the NFL,
and buy my parents
their first-ever home.
Speaking of,
when I left for Miami,
my parents shut down
their cleaning business
in Pennsylvania and moved
to tampa to be close by.
Dewey trying to look so tough.
He only smiles
for his mama's cooking.
Adult Dwayne: Love you, mom.
Now, unfortunately,
my grandmother Lia
became homeless
and was in Samoa at the time.
She was deported,
lost everything,
and she was very sad.
We eventually got her back into
the country and back on her feet,
but that's a story for
another time.
My dad got a job
driving a liquor truck.
And he loved telling everyone
who his son played for.
Hey, everybody,
let me know if you need
Miami hurricane tickets.
My boy's on the team. (Laughs)
I'll take some tickets.
Can I get ten?
Ten? Greedy, Larry.
Adult Dwayne: My mom
also worked,
but her number one job
was worrying about me.
She was never
far from my mind...
(Players grunting)
And neither was
the promise I made
when we lived in Bethlehem.
I wanted to give her
and my dad a better life.
And reminders of that
better life were everywhere.
Practice at the u was intense.
And you had
a lot of eyes on you.
(Rap music playing)
Man: (Rapping) From a
rebel it's final on black vinyl
soul, rock and roll
coming like a rhino
coach orgeron:
Okay, guys, circle up!
Oklahoma drill!
Cristobal!
Coach orgeron: Freshman,
let's see ifyou're
a candyass or a hardass.
(Players cheering)
Hey, you, get me
some coffee grounds to chew.
I am tired as a one-legged
cat in a sandbox.
Yes, coach orgeron.
(Whistle blows)
(Yells)
(Players cheering)
(Both grunting)
Nice, Johnson! You got the most
violent upper body I ever seen.
Thank you, coach!
And polite as (bleep) Too.
Your momma
raised you right, boy.
(Players cheering)
Sanka? I don't chew
on sanka, son.
You find me that good Italian
crap with the gondola on it. Yeah.
Coach orgeron: All right,
who's next?
Player 1: One, two, three...
Players: U! Player 2: Let's go.
Man: Good job, guys.
Hey. Nice practice, big fresh.
Yo. Thanks, Russell.
Russ. Mr. All-america.
Nightmare boy.
Or the conscience. That's how
I approach the game.
I keep it cerebral, you know?
Yeah. Totally.
Uncle Luke pulled me aside
during your practice,
said he liked your game.
Uncle Luke uncle Luke?
From 2 live crew?
From 2 live crew.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Want to invite you to a party
at his house tonight.
He said, "I want Dwayne
Johnson to come to my party"?
Or, like, how did he say...
Did he say...
Hey, calm down. Calm
down. But be excited.
I mean, he never invites
freshmen to his house,
so, you know,
don't embarrass us.
Come correct,
and dress to impress.
It's not gonna be a problem.
Turtleneck, Fanny pack, chain...
(Inhales) Dwayne.
Hey, bro. Yo.
"Dear John's" about to
start. Heading out, Omar.
Record it for me.
Noice! What's in the Fanny pack?
Pop tarts and condoms.
Both: Eat it and beat it.
Omar: Noice.
Beautiful.
Hey, don't call him.
Pnigonnacahhhn.
Babe, heisincohege
living his life.
When I was 18, I was
already on my own, wrestling.
But he's never been
on his own before.
What if someone tries
to steal his atm pin number?
He'll be fine.
He's 6'5", 230 pounds with
genuine rocky Johnson blood
flowing through him. Ain't nobody
gonna Rob him. (Chuckles)
And instead of
worrying about Dewey,
why don't we enjoy being
empty-nesters?
Aren't we already doing that?
Look, this is an
entertainment coupon book.
It's like the Bible,
but for happiness.
Video king, rent one
get one free.
Fifty percent off
Rene's dolphin palace.
Babe, we could be swimming
with dolphins tomorrow!
I've always wanted
to swim with dolphins.
Uh-oh. Oh, no, not tomorrow.
Some blackout dates.
But, yes, soon!
(Funky music playing)
Man: (Singing) Now I wrote
this record for when I perform
lonely nights inside
a university dorm
I put pen to paper
with a paper to pen
for the times
I'm rockin' the mic
in front of women and men
I get raw like Eddie
rough like Freddy
krueger with a luger
turnin' men into spaghetti
(laughs) My man, violent
torso. Michael Irving, damn!
Oh, please, please.
Call me "playmaker".
Playmaker. Hey, aren't
you hot in that coat?
Oh, come on, baby. You
know my ice keep me cool.
(Laughs) Okay. Yo, come on.
Uncle Luke wants
to say hi to you.
Hey, Michael, how you
doing? Oh, my goodness.
Ladies, ladies, ladies,
ladies, ladies!
Yo, meet my partner
Dwayne Johnson.
This kid right here, he's
gonna be a star one day.
I promise you.
Kid? Aren't you, like,
30? (Sniggers)
I'm 18. But I make
love like I'm 30.
Young Dwayne: Ladies.
Was that too much? Yeah,
man. Way, way too much.
Uncle Luke: Oh, hey!
Dwayne Johnson.
This is the freshman turning all
them heads at campus. (Laughs)
Yo, uncle Luke, I'm a huge fan.
I played your tapes so much,
I broke three walkmans.
Oh, damn, the key is not to
use the auto-reverse feature.
You got to hand-flip
them tapes, man.
Ain't no walkman in the world
that can handle my bass.
Right, my bad.
Hey, you know what, man?
We got big expectations
for you, young blood.
I got big expectations
for myself.
I'm gonna move the crowd.
See, that's what I like to hear.
You got to bet on yourself.
Ata: Honey, you shouldn't
have. You know it's a good one
because of the width
in the back.
Yeah, you like it?
Ata: Oh, we love it.
But it's too much.
How can you afford this?
I put it on layaway,
you know? I bet on myself.
Throw this old small
bitch TV in the trash.
Young Dwayne: Hey. And that TV
is just the beginning.
In a couple years, it's gonna be a
three-bedroom ranch house in that box.
Kenny: A lot ofyoung athletes
can relate to trying
to take care of their family.
Adult Dwayne:
It was my goal, Kenny.
And I was on my way
to making it a reality.
All right, circle up, guys!
Men, this Saturday is
our season opener against by...
Those Utah boys like to throw
those pretty passes,
play that finesse game.
And what do we like to do?
Players: Hit 'em in the mouth!
Coach orgeron: Yeah! Oklahoma drill.
Cristobal, Johnson, rematch.
(Whistle blows) (Players
cheering and applauding)
Lightning's not gonna
strike twice.
We've all seen
how this movie ends.
Ready, set, hike.
(Players exclaiming)
I just swallowed
my damn grounds.
All the ligaments
in your shoulder are torn.
I'm sorry, Dwayne.
You're out for the season.
Wait, what? No, that can't be...
Look, this is bad.
But at least it happened
before the season started.
All right, we'll redshirt you so
you won't lose a year of eligibility.
You rehab your butt off,
you come to team meetings,
and continue to study the game,
nextseason, you'll
come back even stronger.
That must have been devastating.
It was.
But, you know, injuries
are just part of the game.
And I really believed
in what coach 0 was saying.
There was no reason why I
couldn't hit rehab really hard
and then come back
even stronger.
I don't care
what the coach says.
You're injured.
You should come home.
Mom, they reset
my shoulder. I'm fine.
Babe, injuries are
part of the game.
Remember when I broke three ribs
against big John studd,
then after the match,
andré kept tickling me?
I knew something bad
was going to happen.
I had that mother's intuition.
But you started distracting me
with dolphin coupons,
and, boom, Dewey gets hurt.
I'm gonna dominate rehab
and come back
stronger than ever, mom.
Tough as nails,
just like your old man.
I got some hernia x-rays
that will bring a tear
to your eye, son.
Rocky, no one wants to hear
about your hernia right now.
You say that, butwhen they hear
the story, they're always riveted.
Dewey, are you sure you're okay?
Mom, trust me. I'm fine.
And were you okay?
Commentator: And after
dropping their opener to byu,
the 'canes look to pick up a win
in their first home game
of the season.
Hey, brother. Hey, Mario.
Sorry you got hurt in that play,
but I want you to know
I got your back.
Can't wait for you to get healthy.
We'll make each other great.
Don't worry about it.
No hard feelings, brother.
Today I play for you.
Who's Vicki?
My mom's best friend who's
going through a divorce.
Won't people think you're
honoring a girl named Vicki Johnson?
Well, you'll know
it's half for you.
All right, boys, gather up.
(Players grunting)
We're gonna go out there today,
and we're gonna do three things.
Players: What's that?
We gonna hit, stick,
and bust (bleep). What else?
Players: Talk (bleep)!
What else?
Talk (bleep)! What else?
Talk (bleep) Let's go!
Kenny: Man, you never
want to be the guy in jeans.
Adult Dwayne:
Oh, it was bad, Kenny.
And the jeans, they were wide.
It was the first big injury
I had experienced.
So I did what I knew how to do.
I hit rehab hard.
The gym was always my sanctuary.
Outside of getting
my shoulder healthy,
I didn't care about
anything else.
I just couldn't
get myself motivated
to prepare for games
that I wouldn't play in.
So I started blowing off
team meetings,
started blowing off class.
My shoulder might have been
getting stronger,
but my mind wasn't.
(Scoffs)
Mr. Johnson, something
to add to our conversation?
Yeah. I pressed b, but it
didn'tjump. (Students laughing)
Adult Dwayne: I was spiraling.
Omar: Yo,
you still playing sega?
Don't you have a final tomorrow?
Yeah, at 6:00 am,
worth 80% of my grade.
Seems like a lot of percent.
Shouldn't you study a little?
I tried, but I just don't care.
All right. Obviously,
you're in a bad place.
But staying in this room
all day isn't helping.
We got to
get your head straight.
Yeah. Turn off the sega.
Let's me and you
go grab some drinks
and get into a fight.
I can't wait for you
to pretend to hold me back.
Yo, this is perfect.
Knock back some tequilas.
Throw some fists.
Yo, keep a lookout
for some contenders.
Violent torso.
Yo, the conscience.
Where you been at, man? I ain't
seen you at none of the meetings.
Uh, you know, I've been around.
Oh, okay.
Well, what you standing
on line for, man?
'Canes don't wait in line.
Come on inside, baby.
Yo, why is he getting in?
He's not on the team.
What'd you say?
I said you're not on the team.
I've seen every game, and
I have never seen you play.
Oh, is that right?
What do you think, Omar?
Should I show this guy
I'm on the team?
No fighting here.
If you want to throw,
take it to drunk alley.
(Grunting)
Hell yeah. Drunk alley.
Let's go.
I don't think
you want to do that.
You heard what
he said to me, Omar.
This is why we're here, man.
I've seen this guy
at myjudo tournaments.
He's past a black belt.
His belt goes up so high,
they ran out of colors.
You know what?
I'm not even sure I
know what he said to me.
Probably misheard.
Couldn't have been that bad.
Sorry. We're at capacity. What?
You were just
about to let us in.
I was here with my teammates.
Hey, uncle Luke.
Oh, hey. Dan? Dwayne.
That's right. That's right.
That's right.
Hey, I heard you
messed up your ankle.
My shoulder. I'm
redshirting this year.
Yeah, I heard
this place is hiring.
Maybe you can do security
for bongos. (Laughs)
I'll see you later, my man.
Dude, where are you
going? Far from here.
What about your final?
(Lock clattering)
Miss Carla, your drunk ass
at the wrong door again!
Go home, miss Carla!
You're at 3b!
Dewey! Hey!
Surprise! What are you doing
here? Is something wrong?
Your Christmas break
isn't for a week.
Oh, I'm fine.
Everything's great.
I finished finals early,
so I took the bus.
The bus? Did you... yes.
I stayed awake the whole time
so nobody could put anything
in my mouth.
Are you hungry? Want me to make
your favorite, steak and teriyaki wings?
Ma, it's almost midnight. Yes.
(Giggles)
Come here, boy.
Hey, tv100ksgood. Doesnth?
We were looking forward to
watching you on it this season.
But hey, next year, right?
Yeah, right.
Did your momma tell you
how many horizontal lines
this thing got?
(Voice fading) Boy,
it's all about the amount
of horizontal lines, son.
Commentator: Third down.
Third and six...
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, you're kidding me.
That's pi.
Breakfast wings.
Oh, you're the best, mom.
Thank you.
So tell me about finals.
Which one was the hardest?
Yeah, they were all hard.
Sorry. I'm just trying
to watch the game.
Oh, sure. We'll talk later.
Mmm-hmm.
Adult Dwayne: I was happy
to be home.
Away from all
the disappointments at Miami.
But that happiness didn't last.
I got the blues
but I don't mind
all I have to do
ls get to you
and then I feel just fine
(chuckles)
You're so good
the way you give
you so good
you're the best there is
commentator: Now by the
time the ball is thrown, notre dame...
Here, this is for yourjuice.
Hey, it's a nice day outside.
We could go see that gator,
see if they got a hold of
anymore fast-food containers.
(Sighs) I'm kinda tired. I think
I'm just gonna watch the game.
Adult Dwayne: Nowadays
they'd call it depression.
Woman on TV:
The sofa bed and the vacuum.
Adult Dwayne: But, back then,
the accepted medical term was...
Hey. Snap out of it! What?
You've been sitting
on this couch for days.
Go out, get some air.
Ah! You didn't even look
through the booklet.
Dad, I don't want to swim
with any dolphins.
You don't know what
you're saying right now.
When I come back, I want you
to pick out three fun things
you want to do.
I talked to him. He's fine now.
He's not fine.
Something's wrong.
Well, maybe his
shoulder's hurting
or he's burned out from finals.
Rocky, I am telling you,
something's off.
He's not himself.
He won't even talk to me.
He keeps saying he's just tired,
but I know that's not true.
Okay, what should we do?
Look at us, wearing
each other's tank-tops.
Hey, easy money.
You're looking good.
Hey, this is my kid Dwayne
I was telling you about.
Plays football for the u.
Dad, stop saying that.
What? It's true.
Technically, it's not. I haven't
played a single snap yet in a game.
Ah, it's just a matter of time.
All right. What's
going on with you?
Nothing. Well, your
mom thinks it's something.
And I think she's right.
She's worried about you.
That's why we're at the gym.
It's a safe space. So talk.
I don't want to talk.
Come on, son.
I know... hey, Tyree.
Boy, when you gonna listen to
me and get into bodybuilding?
Hey, this is my kid I was telling
you about, plays football for the...
Dad, stop!
I don't play football for Miami.
I'm barely on the team.
I wearjeans on gameday.
Jeans? What do you mean?
I haven't been to team
meetings in months, and...
I didn't finish school early.
I blew off finals and left.
I got injured
in the last practice
before the season, dad.
The only freshman that was
gonna get on the field
and that one play...
Son, you can't dwell on that.
If you let yourself
get stuck there, you're
gonna stay stuck there.
I tried, but I can't
get it out of my head.
Hmm.
That thing, that voice
in your head, that's fear.
It's trying to make
you doubt yourself,
trying to steal yourconfidence.
But you can't let it.
You got to tune it out
and keep going.
I don't know how.
Yeah, the how is
different for everyone.
I spoke my dreams out loud.
That way, I could try
to live up to them.
People can say a lot
of stuff about me, son.
But the one thing they can
never say is that I gave up.
I always kept fighting.
So, is this the life
you dreamed of,
sitting on your parents' couch
watching TV all day?
Because if it is,
hey, you did it.
I'll get you some shifts
driving trucks,
and then the fight can be over.
Is that what you want?
Or do you want to keep fighting?
I want to keep fighting.
Kenny: Wow.
I'm surprised your dad
was so ahead of his time
as far as mental health goes.
Adult dwayn e: Yeah,
it surprised me too.
And my dad was just letting
me know that I wasn't alone.
And that's what I want to
share with your audience, Kenny,
is that you're not alone.
If you're going through it
and you're struggling
and you're depressed,
you're not alone.
And it's okay to ask for help.
And asking for help
isn't a weakness.
Asking for help
is actually our superpower.
Amen to that, brother. Preach.
Kenny: Now, I played
for a lot of coaches.
Did your coaches have rocky's
understanding and compassion?
Like I said, it was
a different time back then.
You blew off your classes
and your finals,
and you got a
point-freaking-7 gpa.
The dolphin
they enrolled in classes
as a publicity stunt got a 0.9.
I'm sorry I let you
and the team down, coach.
But I'm gonna fight
to earn back your trust.
Just get your ass back in shape,
show me that upper-body violence
and you hit some
sum' bitches in the mouth.
(Grunts)
I need to stop chewing coffee.
Adult Dwayne: [Wasn't going
to let coach o down or my family.
I was ready to fight
for my spot back.
Come on. Let's go. Go where?
I made us reservations
at Rene's dolphin palace.
Let's have a swim. For real?
(Both giggling)
Thank you for helping our son.
Oh, bring your camera.
I want to have a dolphin
jump over me while I look up.
(Giggling)
Kenny: Thanks
for joining us, man.
I appreciate you
coming here, Dwayne.
Before I let you go, we got
a special surprise for you.
What's up, man? I can't hear.
Yeah, tell him I can't hear him.
What do you say, man?
It's coach 0.
How's your pad level?
Low. Low. Low man wins.
Low man wins. (Laughs)
We've all had a learning curve
when it comes to head stuff.
But I've always respected
how you fought
through hard times, Dewey.
You didn't quit.
Me and you've been down,
but we've never been out.
(Sighs) That's so true, coach.
I want to say thank you.
And I love you.
Thank you, coach.
Very proud of you.
And I love you too, son.
Go, tigers!
Wow. That was coach 0,
everybody.
All right, man.